Add WebDriver classic virtual sensor and pressure source commands (#44726)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/webdriver/reference/classic/commands/createvirtualsensor/index.md

---
title: Create Virtual Sensor
short-title: Create Virtual Sensor
slug: Web/WebDriver/Reference/Classic/Commands/CreateVirtualSensor
page-type: webdriver-command
browser-compat: webdriver.classic.CreateVirtualSensor
sidebar: webdriver
---

> The _Create Virtual Sensor_ [command](/en-US/docs/Web/WebDriver/Reference/Classic/Commands) of the [WebDriver](/en-US/docs/Web/WebDriver) API creates a virtual sensor of a given type that overrides the platform sensor of the same type. This lets tests exercise the [Sensor APIs](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Sensor_APIs) with predetermined readings instead of relying on real hardware. While the virtual sensor exists, it replaces any real sensor of the same type for the [top-level browsing context](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Browsing_context).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The _Create Virtual Sensor_ [command](/en-US/docs/Web/WebDriver/Reference/Classic/Commands) of the [WebDriver](/en-US/docs/Web/WebDriver) API creates a virtual sensor of a given type, which overrides the platform sensor of the same type. This lets tests exercise the [Sensor APIs](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Sensor_APIs) with predetermined readings instead of relying on real hardware. While the virtual sensor exists, it replaces any real sensor of the same type for the top-level [browsing context](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Browsing_context).
```

About the last sentence, based on the note in the [spec](https://w3c.github.io/sensors/#create-virtual-sensor-command)

> "Note: The way this extension command works allows Sensor instances of the same type to coexist and have different device sensors. A Sensor sensor may have been created and connected to a real, hardware sensor before this extension command is invoked. It continues to work and receive readings from it, and only receives readings from a virtual sensor if connect to sensor is invoked again."

Should we clarify the last sentence to say the following + add info about coexistence and also make it a Note callout?

"While the virtual sensor exists, new connections to a sensor of the same type in the top-level browsing context use the virtual sensor instead of the platform sensor.

Note -> Sensor instances of the same type can coexist and use different device sensors. A sensor already connected to a real, hardware sensor continues receiving readings from it and switches to the virtual sensor only if it connects again."

## Syntax

| Method                                                | URI template                   |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| [`POST`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Methods/POST) | `/session/{session id}/sensor` |

### URL parameters

- `session id`
  - : Identifier of the session.

### Payload

The input is an object:

- `type`

>   - : A string identifying the virtual sensor type to create, for example `"ambient-light"`, `"accelerometer"`, or `"gyroscope"`. Only one virtual sensor of a given type can exist at a time in the top-level browsing context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : A string identifying the virtual sensor type to create. Possible values include `"ambient-light"`, `"accelerometer"`, and `"gyroscope"`. Only one virtual sensor of a given type can exist at a time in the top-level browsing context.
```

- `connected` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A boolean indicating whether the sensor is able to provide readings. Defaults to `true`.
- `maxSamplingFrequency` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A number specifying the upper bound, in hertz, of the sampling frequency the virtual sensor supports.
- `minSamplingFrequency` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : A number specifying the lower bound, in hertz, of the sampling frequency the virtual sensor supports.

Reviewer: Though not incorrect without it, suggesting to add "that" to make it easier for readability
```suggestion
- `maxSamplingFrequency` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A number, in hertz, specifying the upper bound of the sampling frequency that the virtual sensor supports.
- `minSamplingFrequency` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A number, in hertz, specifying the lower bound of the sampling frequency that the virtual sensor supports.
```

### Return value

`null` if successful.

### Errors

- [`invalid session id`](/en-US/docs/Web/WebDriver/Reference/Errors/InvalidSessionID)
  - : Session does not exist.
- [`invalid argument`](/en-US/docs/Web/WebDriver/Reference/Errors/InvalidArgument)

>   - : The `type` is not a string or is not a supported virtual sensor type, a virtual sensor of that type already exists, or the supplied frequency values are invalid (for example, not a number or `minSamplingFrequency` is greater than `maxSamplingFrequency`).

Reviewer: Let's break it up, else the length hinders parsing

```suggestion
  - : The `type` is not a string, is not a supported virtual sensor type, or a virtual sensor of that type already exists. The specified sampling frequency values are invalid if they are not a number or if `minSamplingFrequency` is greater than `maxSamplingFrequency`.
```

## Examples

### Creating a virtual sensor

> With a WebDriver server running on `localhost:4444`, assume an active session has been created. To create a virtual [`AmbientLightSensor`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/AmbientLightSensor), send its type as the request payload, replacing `ID` with the `sessionId` from the [New Session](/en-US/docs/Web/WebDriver/Reference/Classic/Commands/NewSession) response:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a WebDriver server running on `localhost:4444`, assume an active session has been created. To create a virtual [`AmbientLightSensor`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/AmbientLightSensor), send its type in the request payload, replacing `ID` with the `sessionId` from the [New Session](/en-US/docs/Web/WebDriver/Reference/Classic/Commands/NewSession) response:
```

```bash
curl -i -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"type": "ambient-light"}' \
  http://localhost:4444/session/ID/sensor
```

> The server responds with a null value to indicate success:

Reviewer: Can be applied to other pages in this PR
```suggestion
The server responds with a `null` value to indicate success:
```
